---
template: BlogPost
path: /release
date: 2021-03-22T15:08:12.174Z
title: Anvil v0.4.0
thumbnail: /assets/image-1.jpg
---

## Overview

Hey guys, got a bit of an update for you. Allen and I have been spending some time the past few weeks putting together a plan for the next year or so.

Here are some things that are happening for sure:

## Moving forward

All plugins and plugin libraries will use Kotlin as their primary language. This includes implementation and API. (Until 
recently we were just writing Kotlin impl)

This isn't the place to get into a big comparison between Java and Kotlin, but I will say that I've been on the fence for a bit and have finally made the jump over to Kotlin because of several Kotlin design features that just *work so well*.

Yes there may be issues with people using other IDEs (other than IntelliJ). Yes there may be issues with people writing Java plugins and depending on our Kotlin API. We think that benefit of switching to Kotlin far outweighs these potential problems. (Of course we are going to try to keep it as compatible as possible with other existing Java projects)

## AnvilGradle

We shade a lot of stuff. Theoretically, these shaded libs should be relocated. Unfortunately, as a plugin, it's kinda hard to use a relocated transient dependency because you need to relocate it yourself, too.

To remedy this, we will develop a gradle plugin (probably called AnvilGradle, open to suggestions), that not only includes the Anvil dependency but also relocated all the necessary dependencies for you! How neat.

We may also pack some other cool features in there, that is yet to be decided.

## AnvilNet

You may have heard of this, it has notoriously been in development for a **long** time and is now finally beginning to work properly. Long story short: it's a multi server event bus implemented ontop plugin messaging and pubsub libraries such as redis.

I'm not going into more detail here, feel free to ask me about it if you are interested though.

## AnvilDump

One command that gives us lots of relevant debugging info and helps us helps you faster.

## bStats

You already know what this is.

This is the end of the main part of this announcement. You may stop reading now.

Or you can keep reading... don't get mad at me for wasting your time though; there's a lot of speculation coming up.

Here are the things that are *probably* happening and/or are pretty far away:

## Admin web panel

We want to develop an admin web panel for Anvil that plugins can hook into. The exact scope of functionality is still up for heavy discussion but we have some ideas already:
- Editing/viewing the registry
- Managing database connections and monitoring DB stats such as latency
- Chat interface
- (Big maybe) admin accounts with different permissions and logins
- API for plugins to add modules or pages to web interface (maybe link with different admin permissions)

### Anvil website

Yes we already have a website. The current one will eventually be moved to docs.anvilpowered.org, with a new one moving into the www subdomain. This website will let you sign in and will probably host forums and (possibly!) your plugin releases / info page. We may also add an integration with the aforementioned admin web panel.
 
### OptionalAnvil (name suggestions welcome)


We get it. Depending on a big plugin lib is annoying. This lib (that you would shade/relocate) makes it easy to optionally depend on Anvil.

